AWS and Infrastructure
How do you provision AWS infrastructure using Terraform and Ansible, and how do you keep it repeatable across environments?

What is the difference between EC2, EKS, ECR, S3, and IAM in a DevOps setup?

How would you design a sandbox AWS environment for testing without risking production resources?

How do you manage security groups, SSH access, and IAM permissions in a secure AWS environment?

What approach would you use to set up HA and DR for an application on AWS?

CI/CD Pipelines
Walk me through an end-to-end CI/CD pipeline you built using Jenkins or GitHub Actions.

How do you decide when to use Jenkins, GitHub Actions, or AWS CodePipeline?

How do you integrate build, test, artifact storage, and deployment stages in a pipeline?

What is your strategy for handling rollback in a failed deployment?

How do you version and promote artifacts across dev, test, and production?

Kubernetes and Containers
Explain the Kubernetes architecture and the role of control plane and worker nodes.

How do Docker and Kubernetes work together in a production deployment?

What are the differences between Docker runtime, containerd, and CRI-O?

How do you troubleshoot a pod that is stuck in CrashLoopBackOff?

How do you manage deployments, services, config maps, and secrets in Kubernetes?

Monitoring and Observability
How have you used Prometheus and Grafana to monitor system health and uptime?

What metrics would you track to measure SLA and application health?

How do you set up alerting to reduce MTTD and avoid alert fatigue?

What is the difference between logs, metrics, and traces?

How do you use ELK Stack for centralized log monitoring and investigation?

Security and Reliability
How do you secure a Linux server before deploying workloads on it?

What are your best practices for managing secrets in CI/CD and Kubernetes?

How do you handle infrastructure drift in IaC-managed environments?

What steps do you take to ensure least privilege across AWS and Kubernetes?

How would you respond to a production incident caused by a bad deployment?

DevOps Scenarios
Describe a time when automation reduced manual effort in your workflow.

How would you design a pipeline that includes code quality, unit tests, and code coverage gates?

What tools would you use to measure code quality and enforce quality gates in CI/CD?

How would you collaborate with application architects to choose the right DevOps tools for a project?

If a deployment succeeds but the application is unhealthy, how would you detect and fix it quickly?

Strong Follow-up Questions
Can you explain a project where you deployed an application to AWS EKS end to end?

What challenges did you face while automating infrastructure with Terraform?

How did you configure CloudWatch, Prometheus, or Grafana to monitor your systems?

What branch strategy did you use in your Git workflows, and why?

How do you test infrastructure changes before applying them in production?

Would you like me to turn these into mock interview Q&A answers or a question list with expected difficulty levels?

how to add files in github in mannuly
Completed 2 steps
You can add files to GitHub manually in two common ways: through the GitHub website or from your computer using Git commands. GitHub’s upload flow lets you drag and drop files into a repository, add a commit message, and commit the change directly on the page.

Method 1: Using GitHub website
Open your repository on GitHub.

Click Add file.

Select Upload files.

Drag and drop your file or click choose your files.

Add a commit message.

Click Commit changes or Propose changes.

Method 2: Using Git on your computer
Put the file inside your local repository folder.

Open Terminal or Git Bash.

Run git add . or git add filename.

Run git commit -m "Add file".

Run git push origin main (or your branch name).

If you mean folders
You can upload a whole folder by dragging and dropping it in the GitHub upload page, or by adding it locally and pushing it with Git.

Simple example
If you want to upload resume.pdf, open your repo, click Add file → Upload files, drop resume.pdf, write a message like Add resume, then commit it.

Would you like the steps for mobile phone, GitHub website, or VS Code + Git?

how docker image test locally
Completed 2 steps
To test a Docker image locally, first build the image, then run a container from it and check whether the app works as expected. A local test usually means verifying the container starts, the ports are exposed correctly, logs are clean, and the app responds on localhost.

Basic steps
Build the image:

bash
docker build -t myapp:1.0 .
Run the container:

bash
docker run --name myapp-test -p 8080:8080 myapp:1.0
Open http://localhost:8080 in your browser or use curl to test the app response.

Useful checks
View logs:

bash
docker logs myapp-test
Enter the container:

bash
docker exec -it myapp-test sh
Stop and remove the container after testing:

bash
docker stop myapp-test
docker rm myapp-test
These commands help you confirm the container is healthy and behaving correctly before pushing it to a registry.

If your app needs environment variables
Pass them with -e when running the container:

bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 -e ENV=dev myapp:1.0
This is important when your image depends on database URLs, API keys, or feature flags.

Example
If your app listens on port 3000:

bash
docker build -t react-app:test .
docker run -d --name react-test -p 3000:3000 react-app:test
curl http://localhost:3000
If the response is correct, your image is working locally.

Would you like a version for Node.js, Python, or React?

Follow-ups

I need a step by step example for a Node.js web application

Please show me how to test a Python application with environment variables

Can you provide a React container testing example for local development

I am using Node.js and would like a simple setup guide for it

Show me how to test a Python app with a database dependency locally
